Add native NANOCLR macro, Dereferencing and arguments explanations (#86)
nanoframework/nanoframework.github.io: content/architecture/nanoclr-stub-args.md

# Generating stubs for a native project, NANOCLR macros, Arguments and return types

When you want to use native code and creating an associated managed code C# library, you should start by reading [this article](https://jsimoesblog.wordpress.com/2018/06/19/interop-in-net-nanoframework/). This article will give you all the steps to create your managed C# project, generate the stubs and have everything glued together.

Once this is done, you'll still have to understand couple of elements related to the `NANOCLR` macros and the arguments and type conversions.

## NANOCLR macros

Once you generate the stubs, you'll have functions that looks like:

```cpp
HRESULT Library_sys_dev_pwm_native_System_Device_Pwm_PwmChannel::NativeInit___VOID( CLR_RT_StackFrame &stack )
{
    NANOCLR_HEADER();

    NANOCLR_SET_AND_LEAVE(stack.NotImplementedStub());

    NANOCLR_NOCLEANUP();
}
```

> Every native code that is surfaced with the managed C# code will be generated with pre setup `NANOCLR` macros. They call all be found in `src\CLR\Include\nanoCLR_Interop.h`. With all the elements below, you will be able to understand how to best use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every native code that is surfaced with the managed C# code will be generated with pre setup `NANOCLR` macros. They call all be found in [`src\CLR\Include\nanoCLR_Interop.h`](https://github.com/nanoframework/nf-interpreter/blob/f5d026224116bd671f42d5c482701447b1bf6e70/src/CLR/Include/nanoCLR_Interop.h). With all the elements below, you will be able to understand how to best use them.
```

### NANOCLR_HEADER

The `NANOCLR_HEADER` is always present at the top of each generated function. It's purpose is ti create the `HRESULT hr` variable.

### NANOCLR_CLEANUP or NANOCLR_NOCLEANUP, LABEL or NOLABEL

the `CLEANUP` family includes 4 declinations and few more elements:

> ```cpp

Reviewer: better tidy up the indentation on this block to improve reading

#define NANOCLR_CLEANUP_END()						NANOCLR_RETURN()
#define NANOCLR_NOCLEANUP()							NANOCLR_CLEANUP(); NANOCLR_CLEANUP_END()
#define NANOCLR_NOCLEANUP_NOLABEL()					hr = S_OK; NANOCLR_RETURN()
```

So to demystify and understand which one to use, the `NANOCLR_NOCLEANUP_NOLABEL();` is equivalent to: `hr = S_OK; return hr;`. So if you don't have to clean anything, that your code is straight forward, that's the general case you can use.

Looking at the `NANOCLR_NOCLEANUP` one, you'll have something added in the equivalent, a label: `hr = S_OK; nanoCLR_Cleanup:; return hr;`. As you see the label has been added and looking at few more definition, the `NANOCLR_LEAVE` macro is `goto nanoCLR_Cleanup` meaning, anything that needs some check and may leave earlier than a straight forward way will need to have the label version used.

The variation with `CLEANUP_END` is here to just return hr, it's as well one that can be used when you have nothing to check. While the  `NANOCLR_CLEANUP` one sets the hr to ok and place the label. It can't be used alone, the `NANOCLR_LEAVE` will have to be used after. 

### NANOCLR_SET_AND_LEAVE, NANOCLR_CHECK_HRESULT and NANOCLR_EXIT_ON_SUCCESS

> Those `NANOCLR_CHECK_HRESULT` and `NANOCLR_EXIT_ON_SUCCESS` macros allow you to check if a function or an expressing is a failure or success and then as we've seen previously go to `nanoCLR_Cleanup`. This is used a lot when you are calling other similar function returning as well an `HRESULT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Those `NANOCLR_CHECK_HRESULT` and `NANOCLR_EXIT_ON_SUCCESS` macros allow you to check if a call to a function or an expression has failed or succeeded and then, as we've seen previously, go to `nanoCLR_Cleanup`. This is used a lot when you are calling other similar function returning as well an `HRESULT`.
```

```cpp
#define NANOCLR_CHECK_HRESULT(expr)					{ if(FAILED(hr = (expr))) NANOCLR_LEAVE(); }
#define NANOCLR_EXIT_ON_SUCCESS(expr)				{ if(SUCCEEDED(hr = (expr))) NANOCLR_LEAVE(); }
#define NANOCLR_SET_AND_LEAVE(expr)					{ hr = (expr); NANOCLR_LEAVE(); }
```

The `NANOCLR_SET_AND_LEAVE` function will just set the `HRESULT` and go to `nanoCLR_Cleanup`.

> You will find a detailed list of typical HRESULT in the `src\CLR\Include\nf_errors_exceptions.h` file. FAILED and SUCCEEDED are defined like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will find a detailed list of typical HRESULT in the [`src\CLR\Include\nf_errors_exceptions.h`](https://github.com/nanoframework/nf-interpreter/blob/f5d026224116bd671f42d5c482701447b1bf6e70/src/CLR/Include/nf_errors_exceptions.h) file. FAILED and SUCCEEDED are defined like this:
```

```cpp
#define SUCCEEDED(Status) ((HRESULT)(Status) >= 0)
#define FAILED(Status) ((HRESULT)(Status)<0)
```

### NANOCLR_MSG_SET_AND_LEAVE and NANOCLR_MSG1_SET_AND_LEAVE

Those 2 macros are defined like this:

```cpp
#define NANOCLR_MSG_SET_AND_LEAVE(expr, msg)		{ hr = (expr); NANOCLR_LEAVE(); }
#define NANOCLR_MSG1_SET_AND_LEAVE(expr, msg, arg)	{ hr = (expr); NANOCLR_LEAVE(); }
```

So they allow you to setup the return element and leave. Those are so far used only in the `src\CLR\Core\TypeSystem.cpp` file. That said, nothing prevent you to use them as well.

## CLR_RT_StackFrame &stack

At every call to one of those native functions, the stack is passed thru a structure called CLR_RT_StackFrame. The definition can be found in `src\CLR\Include\nanoCLR_Runtime.h`. It would be too long to go thru all the functions and properties. In this description we will focus only on few elements.

### If your function is in a static class

> In, this case you **won't** have the class stack available. Stack class is only available for non static class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In, this case, the stack class that you'll get it's is the "static instance" of the C# class. The pointer to the class instance is only available for non static calls. The reason for this is that the execution engine adds a pointer to the class instance to the IL stack, when there is an instance of it.
```

### Getting and checking the stack in a non static class

The pattern to use is the following:

```cpp
CLR_RT_HeapBlock* pThis = stack.This();
FAULT_ON_NULL(pThis);
```

`FAULT_ON_NULL` is a macro similar to the onces presented in the previous section which will check of the stack is null or not. In case of null it will go to the `nanoCLR_Cleanup` label and set the `HRESULT` to a null fault.

The definition can be found in `src\CLR\Include\nanoCLR_Interop.h`.

```cpp
#define FAULT_ON_NULL(ptr)							if(!(ptr)) NANOCLR_SET_AND_LEAVE(CLR_E_NULL_REFERENCE)
#define FAULT_ON_NULL_ARG(ptr)						if(!(ptr)) NANOCLR_SET_AND_LEAVE(CLR_E_ARGUMENT_NULL)
```

You can use those macro for arguments too. We will see this in one of the following section.

### Getting any exposed field from the stack

> Once the stack is valid, you can get any exposed field. Here is a typical example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've checked that the stack is valid, you can get a pointer to any of the class fields. Here is a typical example:
```

```cpp
int pinNumber = (int)(pThis[Library_sys_dev_pwm_native_System_Device_Pwm_PwmChannel::FIELD___pinNumber].NumericByRef().u4);
```

> 

Reviewer: In case you're accessing one of the fields of the "current" class, there is no need to use the fully qualified name with the namespace. It would be OK to just use `pThis[FIELD___pinNumber].NumericByRef().u4`.

Author: Yes, that I know, I just wrote it's recommended to use the long name to avoid any issue. Now, I can surely adjust and make it more clear.

Reviewer: No it's OK. I can see that you have a detailed explanation about this namespace in the next paragraph.

> The stack is a `CLR_RT_HeapBlock`. This type is the core type that allows you get access to the stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stack is a `CLR_RT_HeapBlock`. This type is the core type that allows you get access to a Heap Block, which are the objects that are placed in the IL stack.
```

The pattern to use is the array one: `pthis[the_field_to_get]` where you have to make sure the field does exist. To avoid any issue, it is recommended to use the long names like `Library_sys_dev_pwm_native_System_Device_Pwm_PwmChannel::FIELD___pinNumber`.

Then the `NumericByRef()` allows you to get a numerical number and `u4` to convert it as a `uint32`. For numerics, you have as well `NumericByRefConst()` allowing to convert as a constant. Then you have `u` for non signed, 1, 2, 4 and 8 for the number of bytes. `i` for signed, `r4` for `float` and `r8` for `double`.

> Pro tip: the generated function definition contains the types and the return type. Example: `NativeSetActiveDutyCyclePercentage___VOID__U4` is void as return and U4 so uint32 for the first argument. This is done on purpose to help managing the return type and arguments.

## Arg0, Arg1, ArgsN

Helpers functions available to access the arguments. We will look at this in this section.

### Static class

> In a static class, the `stack.Arg0()` represent the first argument. As explained before do **not** use `CLR_RT_HeapBlock* pThis = stack.This();` as this is not defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a static class, the `stack.Arg0()` points the first Heap Block passed on the IL stack. As explained before, do **not** use `CLR_RT_HeapBlock* pThis = stack.This();` because that won't be a pointer to a class instance (again: this is a call to a static method, therefore there is no instance of the class).
```

### Non static class

> In a non static class, `stack.Arg0()` is equivalent to `stack.This()`. It does mean that the first argument can be accessed with Arg1().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a non static class, `stack.Arg0()` is equivalent to `stack.This()`. The first parameter passed from the C# method can be accessed with Arg1() and the following ones with equivalent calls that have the same index as the parameter.
```
